[narrator]
Previously onX-Men...
You either follow orders
like the other members
of this team
or you're out of it.
If you want to settle this,
mon ami
then let's do it!
What started this?
I thought it was dangerous
for Gambit
to spread unfounded rumors.
It's not a rumor.
I know someone who was there.
The Genoshans,
they welcome mutants
to their island.
If the inhabitants of Genosha
are encouraging mutants
to live among them,
this is an opportunity
we can't miss.
Please, Cyclops, can I go?
Please?
Sure, Jubilee,
I guess a beach
can't be too dangerous.
[receptionist]
Welcome
to the Genosha Beach Inn.
I've got the perfect rooms
for you. Just perfect.
We've got to get out!
[Genoshan commander]
Surrender, mutants!
[Jubilee]
No!
[theme music playing]
[alarm blaring]
[gasps]
[collar beeping]
[Leader on PA]
Mutants of Genosha!
A new day begins!
You have been brought here
to build a new Genosha
a nation worthy of me,
its Leader.
Be happy in your work.
[commander]
The collars that suppress
your mutant powers
will be turned off.
So you can use your powers
in your work.
If you try to escape,
the collars will be reactivated
at once.
If you try to remove
your collar, it will explode
and destroy you.
Great vacation, Gambit.
Now get to work!
[beeping stops]
Now! Gambit! Jubilee!
No use, petite!
Let me go, Gambit!
[grunts]
[collars beeping]
My powers!
Storm!
[screaming]
[gasping]
That's a Sentinel!
I thought we wiped out
those overgrown dweebs!
There's always more gators
in the bayou.
This mutant apprehended
while attempting to escape.
Storm! Leave her alone!
[Jubilee exclaims]
Be quiet for once!
The Leader has promised
that you mutants
will be released
once this dam is built.
But if you try to escape,
you will never leave Genosha.
That's one
of the Mutant Registration guys
that grabbed me
after the weirdness back home
at the mall!
I guess when the President
canceled his program
he moved south for his health.
We have to do something!
Dispose of this one,
permanently.
[Gambit]
You're making a mistake!
You don't know what she can do!
Gambit! What are you doing?
-Knowledge is power!
-Be silent.
According to her
interrogation...
She didn't tell you nothing.
She can control the weather!
She'll make it rain
like a big storm.
Fill up this lake in no time.
Yes, that would be useful.
Until the dam is ready,
put her in the box.
No! Not in there!
Not in here! No!
Please! Let me out!
Let me out!
[Jubilee]
The ad said, "Fun in the sun."
Let me know when the fun starts.
[grunting]
I just can't stand
to think of her inside that box.
With her claustrophobia,
it must be terrible.
She's alive, petite.
Put your weight into it,
pretty boy!
You! Go break rocks.
Dry that concrete evenly,
Sunfire.
We don't want it to crack.
[explosion]
It's him.
Back to your cells, mutants!
[Leader]
I have decided there will be
no more work today.
Enjoy yourselves.
Keep moving!
[Leader]
Remember,
your Leader loves you.
Remind me never to buy stock
in the Genoshan Phone Company.
Storm grew up
on the streets of Cairo.
I'm sure she can handle
whatever Genosha throws at her
even bad phone service.
[door opens]
Well! Look what the cat drug in.
-I'm back.
-We've been trying to contact
you for days, Wolverine.
Where have you been?
[sneezing]
Somewhere cold.
Some dork at the power company
sure picked a good time
to screw up.
Not that young Jubilee,
X-Woman Supreme
couldn't have handled it anyway.
I am too slick.
-Gambit!
-What are you doing, petite?
-Taking a walk?
-I've got a plan on
how to get out of here.
When they brought us back
to the prison today
we walked right past the goon
who turns the collars
on and off.
If we jump him
we can get the controls
and get our powers back.
-You're going to end up
like Storm, in a box.
-Hey! No way!
They won't expect us
to try anything
right outside the prison.
We'll take them by surprise.
I'll get you out so you can talk
to the others.
This girl I knew
in the orphanage
taught me how to pick locks.
It's your plan. You tell them.
They like you better, anyway.
Now go on, quick...
before the lights come on again.
Yeah. Okay.
Listen, everybody!
I know a way we can all escape!
I've got a plan
on how to rush the guards.
Don't be stupid, kid!
You'll just get us in trouble!
Why risk our lives, girl?
They say they set us free
when the work is done.
Dumb kid! Go to bed!
I think I will!
We're ready to go, Professor.
Are you sure
you won't come with us?
You said yourself,
there's probably no trouble
on Genosha.
Besides, I have some things
I have to do.
[receptionist on phone]
Muir Island
Mutant Research Center.
Moira McTaggart, please.
Tell her it's an old friend.
[Leader]
Mutants of Genosha!
A new day begins!
[Jubilee]
Gambit?
Gambit!
They take him away in the night.
[whispering]
We with you! Just say when!
[Jubilee]
Now!
Come on!
Use your mutant powers!
The collars are still on!
Don't shoot!
It doesn't work!
[Jubilee exclaims]
I have apprehended the leader
of the mutant rebellion.
[Leader]
We were warned by one of their
own kind... a mutant.
It can't be!
[Storm]
Jubilee. Jubilee!
-Storm!
-[Storm] Do not be afraid,
child.
I will make a snowstorm
when the sun rises.
Don't, Storm, please.
You know you don't have
your powers.
Gambit...
Gambit will save us.
Isn't it beautiful, Gyrich?
I call it Mastermold.
Sentinel creation completed.
[Trask]
The manufacturing process
is entirely self-contained.
All it requires is an outside
power source.
[Hodge]
Too much power, Dr. Trask.
You blacked out
half of Genosha last night.
We'll have our own power grid
once the dam is finished.
Then Mastermold's children
will be able to track down
mutants
anywhere on the planet.
Good to see you
again, Colonel.
I am called "Leader" now,
Mr. Gyrich.
Do not forget that.
Cameron Hodge,
development adviser
to the Government of Genosha.
[Leader]
I understand there was a revolt
by the slaves.
We allowed it to happen,
to break their spirit.
You should have seen
their faces when I showed
them who had betrayed them.
[door opens]
He calls himself Gambit.
[Gyrich]
You helped that girl
when the Sentinel tried
to capture her
at Salem Center Mall.
Were you also one of the mutants
who attacked the Sentinel
factory?
They call themselves
the X-Men.
X-Men?
What is so special
about these X-Men?
Where can I find them?
If I tell you,
maybe you don't need me no more.
I think I better just take you
there
whenever you're ready.
Why should I believe
you'll betray your friends
your fellow mutants?
They're not my friends.
They don't like me,
don't trust me.
They're just using me,
like you.
All right.
We'll do it your way.
Take him back to the prison
until we're ready for him.
You want to see a card trick?
[guard]
Stop, mutant!
[guards exclaim]
Uh-uh.
I'm looking for the one
who calls himself "The Leader."
In the factory,
beside the bridge.
Who are you?
The Wild Man of Borneo.
-See you around.
-The Leader has made slaves
of the mutants.
-Will you help me set them free?
-Here.
I took that off one of those
Genoshan goons a week ago.
Maybe you can use it.
[chuckles]
[Gyrich]
Who is this man
the one the Leader
is so afraid of?
[Hodge]
His name is Cable.
An American, apparently.
He was a mercenary
in the Leader's army,
until he found out
the Leader wasn't
the champion of democracy
he claimed to be.
We're not sure,
but we suspect he's a mutant.
So he threw his wages back
in the Leader's face
and took to the hills
to start a revolution.
Cable lives by his code,
but he will not live long.
I always thought
it'd be great to have a sauna.
Storm!
[gasps]
Gambit!
[groaning]
-Quickly, cherie!
-I knew you would rescue us.
You jerk! You made me think
you were a traitor!
Why didn't you tell me
you were just pretending?
Hey!
How do you sweat so much,
petite,and not lose weight?
[exclaims in anger]
I hate you!
The collars you use
to control your mutants.
They were invented
by a scientist in Scotland.
A true genius.
[Gyrich]
Could I get them
in large numbers?
How much is it worth to you
to have that man, Cable,
eliminated?
[Leader]
How much can you pay?
When the dam is completed
we'll have the power to create
thousands of Sentinels.
Your Sentinels make you
a hard man to refuse.
Your Leadership!
Three of the mutants
have escaped!
The one called
Gambit freed them!
I knew he
couldn't be trusted!
[all screaming]
In line, mutants.
No more work today.
[guard 1]
No!
[groans]
[Gambit]
MonsieurSentinel!
Imminent danger.
Initiate booster rocket...
Blast that mutant!
Mind if I borrow this?
[Sunfire]
We can use our powers!
[guard 2]
The mutants are free!
[guards exclaiming]
Happy landings, goon!
Stop! You must not harm him!
[commander screaming]
Now that you're free,
you can help us stop
the Sentinels.
No! We follow you once before,
to disaster.
Gambit has seen
how the Sentinels are created.
There will be thousands of them
unless this dam is destroyed.
We deal with the Sentinels
when all of Genosha is ours.
Come on!
Give me that key.
You could at least say
thank you!
This dam's too big for us
to bring down, non?
[Storm]
Yes, but a power greater
than ours
lies hidden within the clouds.
[Gyrich]
This whole situation
is collapsing.
I'm going back to Washington.
Gyrich!
You're not going to abandon me!
Halt!
[thunder rumbling]
Take me to my car at once.
The other way, you fool!
Remember me, Colonel?
Please, Storm!
You're not strong enough yet!
Leave me!
Come, petite!
We've got to let her be.
No!
I summon the full power
of the storm!
[groaning]
You've been working too hard,
gal.
Have you ever been
to Switzerland, Mr. Hodge?
[Hodge gasps]
[guard screams]
[Cable]
I thought you were going to
bring democracy to Genosha.
I don't mind being wrong,
as long as I can
correct my mistakes.
Drop that plasma rifle
or I'll fire!
Blast him, Hodge! Now!
[rumbling]
[screams]
[Mastermold]
I am still plugged in!
Cyclops to Xavier.
Come in, Professor.
There's no answer. Just static.
[gasps]
It's all right, Storm.
I dreamed I was
in a very small place.
I'm sorry I didn't trust you,
Gambit.
I mean, I should've known
you'd never really be a traitor.
How do you know that,
petite?
Maybe you been fooled again,
non?
Touchdown in two minutes.
I'm getting a visual on the...
the school!
It can't be!
[growling]
[closing theme music playing]